[MUSIC]
Hi, and welcome to the first of the series
of the Excel demos and exercises.
During this section, I am going to
give you an overview of the basic
Excel functions and
how to navigate an Excel workbook.
If you have never used Excel before,
you might be wondering what a function or
a workbook is.
Remember that you can always
review the course glossary for
clarification of any of the terms
that might be new to you.
Let's start with an overview
of the Excel ribbon.
When you open an Excel workbook, you will
see that there's a ribbon at the very top
that provides a number of
options including the Home page,
Insert, Page Layout, etc.
You can navigate this ribbon by
clicking through the different tabs and
selecting any of the listed options.
On the Home tab, you will find all of
the Copy/Paste options as well as text
formatting options, cell alignment,
formatting and editing options.
On the Insert tab, you will find
buttons that let you insert Tables,
Illustrations, Images, Charts, Links,
Objects, Symbols and many, many more.
On the Page Layout tab,
you will find various options
that allow you to change the settings on
how the Excel page is being displayed.
Here you can, for example,
change the theme, the colors,
you can also define the print area and
layout.
And you can also move objects, backwards,
forwards and many more things.
On the Formula tab,
you will find different libraries
that contain various functions.
You will also find the Name Manager
that is used for named ranges, something
that we will cover later in this course
as well as Formula Auditing options.
On the Data tab, you will find options
to import external data, to sort and
filter the data that is currently in
the workbook, as well as various other
tools that will facilitate
data manipulation.
On the Review tab, you will find options
to review the sheet such as spellcheck,
inserting comments, and track changes.
On the View tab, you will find options for
different workbook views,
zooming in or zooming out,
freezing panes, and viewing macros.
You can also navigate the ribbon
using the Alt key shortcut.
When you press the Alt key,
letters appear on the ribbon showing
the different options that are available.
For example, if I hit the Alt key followed
by H this takes me to the Home tab.
And additional letters up here under each
of the available commands on this tab.
This feature is very useful for
learning keyboard shortcuts.
It is important to note that some people
may mention keyboard shortcuts that vary
from this breadcrumb method.
These are old holdover shortcuts that will
still work in Excel from prior versions.
Throughout the course,
we will talk about keyboard shortcuts.
As a leading practice,
I wouldn't recommend trying to
memorize every single shortcut.
But as you find yourself using
the same command over and
over again, try to shift to learning
the associated keyboard shortcut.
Over time,
your keyboard vocabulary will expand.
The ribbon at the top of the Excel
workbook is entirely customizable,
you can rearrange the different tabs,
you can add in new tools, and
you can make any changes to
suit your personal preferences.
Right below the ribbon,
there's a cell that shows you where you
are currently located in the workbook.
Note that the names of the cells
begin with A1 in the top-left corner.
Columns are named with letters and
rows are named with numbers.
We will discuss named ranges later
in this course, but if the selected
cells are named, you would see the name
of that range appear here as well.
Next to the cell location box,
you will find the Formula bar.
This is where we will be entering Excel
formulas and/or text strings as inputs.
A formula is a calculation
performed by Excel
resulting in a value that will
be displayed in the cell.
You always start an Excel
formula using the equal sign.
This informs Excel that
a formula is being entered and
will require a calculation
versus a pure input.
Formulas can include numbers, for example,
when entering a simple equation, and
can also reference other
cells in the workbook.
Commas and parentheses are used to
separate different parts of an Excel
function. Excel performs calculations
using PEMDAS order of operations,
just the way any mathematical
equation would work.
PEMDAS stands for parenthesis, exponents,
multiplication, division,
addition, and subtraction.
Let's practice writing a simple formula
that will perform a mathematical
calculation.
First, we go to cell B13, and
we double-click in order to enter
into the cell and begin the editing.
We start the formula by typing the = sign,
this will let Excel know that we
are going to be calculating something.
Now, I'm going to write the formula
that is indicated above,
pressing Enter to signal that I'm done.
As you can see,
Excel calculates the answer just the way
you would do it on a calculator.
[MUSIC]